Show sidecar mode before external mode in App and API Protection for Kubernetes (#37645)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/containers/kubernetes/appsec.md

- **Automatically detects** supported proxies in your cluster
- **Configures proxies** to route traffic through an external Application Security processor
- **Enables threat detection** for all traffic passing through your ingress layer
- **Simplifies operations** through centralized configuration with Helm

### Supported proxies

For the list of supported proxies and proxy-specific setup steps, see the [setup page][10].

## Limitations

### Sidecar mode
- Requires Datadog Cluster Agent 7.80.2 or later
- Each gateway pod runs its own processor instance, which increases per-pod resource usage

### External mode
- Requires Datadog Cluster Agent 7.80.2 or later
- Security processor must be manually deployed and scaled
- Deployed service may require an appropriate network policy:
  - From the proxy pods on the service port
  - To the Datadog Agent for traces

### Proxy compatibility
- For proxy version compatibility, see the [compatibility documentation][8].

## Prerequisites

Before enabling App and API Protection for Kubernetes, verify that you have:

- A running Kubernetes cluster (version 1.20 or later)

> - [Datadog Cluster Agent 7.80.2+][1] installed and configured in your cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Datadog Cluster Agent 7.80.2 or later][1] installed and configured in your cluster
```

Author: https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/commit/60763657c6653de68238aa8a30b11baef7c2da8b

- **External mode**: A single, centralized Application Security processor deployment serves all gateway traffic in your cluster. Use this mode when you want to manage one shared processor for the whole cluster.

To set up the default sidecar mode, see [Set up sidecar mode](#set-up-sidecar-mode). To deploy a centralized processor instead, see [Set up external mode](#set-up-external-mode).

## Set up sidecar mode

In sidecar mode, the security processor runs as a container injected directly into each gateway pod. The Cluster Agent handles injection automatically, so you don't need a separate processor deployment or service.

### When to use sidecar mode

- You prefer not to manage a separate processor deployment and service
- You want the processor co-located with each gateway pod

### Setup

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Helm" %}}

Add the following to your `values.yaml`. No `processor.service.*` values are needed because the injector handles processor deployment automatically.

```yaml
datadog:
  appsec:
    injector:
      enabled: true
      # mode defaults to "sidecar" when omitted
```

> Install or upgrade the Datadog Helm chart (v3.153+):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Install or upgrade the Datadog Helm chart (version 3.153 or later):
```

Author: https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/commit/60763657c6653de68238aa8a30b11baef7c2da8b

```bash
helm upgrade -i datadog-agent datadog/datadog -f values.yaml
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Datadog Operator" %}}

> This option requires Datadog Operator v1.27.1+.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This option requires Datadog Operator version 1.27.1 or later.
```

Author: https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/commit/60763657c6653de68238aa8a30b11baef7c2da8b

Add annotations to your `DatadogAgent` resource. Sidecar mode is the default, so enabling the injector is enough:

```yaml
apiVersion: datadoghq.com/v2alpha1
kind: DatadogAgent
metadata:
  name: datadog
  annotations:
    agent.datadoghq.com/appsec.injector.enabled: "true"
```

Apply the configuration:

```bash
kubectl apply -f datadog-agent.yaml
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Sidecar configuration reference

> All sidecar parameters are available as Helm values nested under `datadog.appsec.injector.sidecar`, or as `DatadogAgent` annotations (Datadog Operator v1.27.1+):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All sidecar parameters are available as Helm values nested under `datadog.appsec.injector.sidecar`, or as `DatadogAgent` annotations (Datadog Operator version 1.27.1 or later):
```

Author: https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/commit/60763657c6653de68238aa8a30b11baef7c2da8b

> | Helm Parameter | Datadog Operator Annotation | Type | Default | Description |

Reviewer: This might be better as a [description list](https://datadoghq.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/docs4docs/pages/1182958054/Markdown+Shortcode+Reference#Description-lists) because as a table it's hard to read the content for some of the columns. See [preview](https://docs-staging.datadoghq.com/eliottness/sidecar-mode/containers/kubernetes/appsec/?tab=datadogoperator#sidecar-configuration-reference).

An [example of a description list](https://docs.datadoghq.com/observability_pipelines/configuration/install_the_worker/advanced_worker_configurations/#bootstrap-options).

Author: https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/commit/60763657c6653de68238aa8a30b11baef7c2da8b

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Datadog Operator" %}}

> This option requires Datadog Operator v1.27.1+.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This option requires Datadog Operator version 1.27.1 or later.
```

Author: https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/commit/60763657c6653de68238aa8a30b11baef7c2da8b

> | Helm Parameter | Datadog Operator Annotation | Type | Default | Description |

Reviewer: Same here, a description list might be better for readability.

Author: https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/commit/60763657c6653de68238aa8a30b11baef7c2da8b
